# Pewlett-Hackard-Analysis

Overview of the analysis: The purpose of this analysis is to provide Pewlett-Hackard data on its employees approaching retirement age. Baby Boomers are getting ready for retirement and Pewlett-Hackard would like to stay ahead of the "silver tsunami" of retirees and empty positions needed to be filled so the company can continue to run smoothly without its more experienced employees. Calculating the number of employees approaching retirement will help the company develop a contingency plan by offering retirement packages and employee mentoring programs to train the next generation of employees to fill the open roles within the company created upon retirement. 

Results: 
1. Searching our employee database by birthday, we can see in the retirement_info csv file, there are currently 41,381 employees approaching retirement. See /Users/jfitz33/Desktop/Ut_Class/Analysis Projects Folder/Pewlett-Hackard-Analysis/Number of Employees Approaching Retirement.png

2. Looking at our Retirement titles it is clear the majority of future retirees are in the Senior Engineer or Senior Staff positions. Preparing the next generation of future senior staffers would make the most sense for the company's future and long term success. See /Users/jfitz33/Desktop/Retiring Titles .png

3. Another point to consider is one employee could oversee multiple departments or have two titles. As is the case in the retirement titles search. You will see one employee for example Christian Koblick holds two titles - Engineer and Senior Engineer. See /Users/jfitz33/Desktop/Retirement Titles .png

4. But how do we accomplish this task? A mentoring program! As you can see from the mentorship eligibility there are 1550 employees eligible for mentoring searching the employee database by birth year 1965. Although a mentoring program is an excellent idea, this is only a fraction of roles needing to be filled by future retirees. See /Users/jfitz33/Desktop/Total number of Mentors Availble.png


Summary:
There are a total of 41,382 roles that will need to be filled of the 3000,025 total employees -  That is approximately 13.7892% of their total work force as the "silver tsunami" begins to make an impact.

Currently there are not enough qualified, retirement-ready employees in the departments to mentor the next generation of Pewlett Hackard employees. My first thought was to expand the eligibility search parameters to increase the number of employees ready to fill the next phase of retirees positions. However, upon inspecting the data and running another query expanding the date range of employee brith_date beyond 1965, it was discovered Pewlett_Hackard does not have any employees born after 1965! The results of this query were zero. See /Users/jfitz33/Desktop/No Employees Born After 1965.png 

They have not done a good job hiring young talent for the next generation of employees and future leaders of the company. They need to recruit outside talent to fill open positions after the baby boomers retire and they also need to start hiring young talent out of college who can work their way up through the company and become the future generation of leaders. 